>> Scott Moss: Yesterday, we covered and
we went through building out
a API using Express and Node.
We took somewhat of a pragmatic
approach using metaprogramming to
generate common things for our REST API.
We finished off with some testing.
So if you did some of that testing
yesterday, that's awesome.
Today, we're gonna jump right into GraphQL
and talk about some different approaches,
walk through one of my favorite
approaches with GraphQL and how we can
use it together with what we already
built yesterday and then go from there.
Who here has used GraphQL?
>> Scott Moss: Well, okay, Scott, give me
a definition of what is GraphQL to you?
What is it?
>> Scott: It's a data query language that
allows us to define exactly what we're
looking for from the backend without,
>> Scott: Yeah.
>> Scott Moss: That sounds right.
>> Scott Moss: A query language that lets
you define exactly what you
want from the backend and
consume it in such a way, okay.
What about you?
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH] Yeah,
I don't know that I have much to add.
I think that was pretty good.
I think that it's nice because it's, yeah,
it provides the data
that the client needs.
It's not this whole massive amount of.
>> Scott Moss: Nice, okay,
in both the definitions,
I liked that both of you all mentioned
that it's what the client wants.
And that's what's very
important about GraphQL.
It's like an approach from the client's
perspective like hey, this is what I want.
So, what is GraphQL?
This is the definition I
got from the Internet.
GraphQL is a query language for
APIs and a runtime for
fulfilling those queries
with your existing data.
GraphQL provides a complete and
understandable description
of the data in your API,
gives clients the power to ask for
exactly what they need and nothing more.
Makes it easier to evolve APIs over time
and enables powerful developer tools.
Yeah, that's a Internet definition, right?
So, what is it really?
Here's my definition of GraphQL.
It's a query language for your API.
Clients describe how
they want their data and
the shape of it using a query
language very similar to JSON.
So if you know JSON, you'll see
some familiarities with GraphQL.
There's definitely some differences,
but you'll seem very familiar with it.
Those requests are validated against
a Schema that you create on your server.
So you have the queries
that your client sends.
Your server has a matching Schema
that validates those queries.
And your server then satisfies the shape
however it wants using resolvers.
So, basically, you could think of it as,
who here's used TypeScript?
It's like TypeScript for
your APIs, almost.
It's like, you can put an abstraction
in front of your API that
strictly prohibits basically what
shapes of data that can come
through the API and
GraphQL strictly checks that.
And it allows the client
to descriptly say hey,
I want this object with this name, these
properties in this order and this shape.
And then on the backend,
you respond to that using resolvers.
That sounds pretty complicated, cuz
you're like wait, how do I do all that?
You'll see.
And it does all this with one URL.
You know with REST we had to make
different URLs for different resources,
different actions?
GraphQL does this with one URL.
There's only one, ever.
So can be used in tandem
with your current API.
So we built the REST API yesterday.
We could use GraphQL together with
the REST, sitting side-by-side.
We can have GraphQL
underneath the REST API.
We can have GraphQL on
top of the REST API.
It's pretty much however you wanna do it.
Today, we're gonna use them together,
side by side.
And at the end of the day,
I'm gonna talk about how you can have
GraphQL sit underneath REST and
also next to it at the same time.
Only needs one route for all requests,
and you'll see what I'm talking about.
That sounds crazy,
it sounded crazy to me the first time.
I was like, how?
That doesn't make any sense.
You'll see.
Doesn't care about how you resolve
the data, just has to match the shapes.
So remember when we made
controllers yesterday?
Those controllers respond to
all the routes that we created.
You can think of resolvers as
controllers but way more granular.
Whereas a controller
responds to a request,
a resolver responds to a shape or
a field on a shape.
It can literally respond
to just one field,
it depends on how you
write your resolvers.
So you can think of them as just
microcontrollers that can do whatever
they want.
>> Scott Moss: You don't
need versions ever again for
your API because the URL
is always the same.
And you can change your
Schema as much as you want.
You might need versions for your
Schema [LAUGH] or your data types, but
you definitely don't need versions for
your API.
It's the same API, it's the same URL so
you don't have to do that anymore.
And once you learn it, if you do
a lot of client-side development,
you're gonna love GraphQL.
You're gonna love it.
The benefit of GraphQL might not be so
obvious on the server until you start
doing advanced things, then you'll see it.
But the benefit is immediate
if you're writing client code.
If you're writing anything client,
whether that's mobile or
web, you'll immediately see
the benefit of GraphQL.
So although we're doing
a server side today,
we are gonna go over some stuff
where you can see the benefit.
But the benefit is definitely way
better on the front end where you're
consuming the API.
The consuming of the API definitely
benefits from GraphQL more so
than the implementer of the API.
Does that make sense?
Okay, cool, any questions on this?
Yo.
>> Speaker 4: So, would this be
considered kind of a replacement for
the need to have filters and
things like that,
that you would typically use
when you're doing a REST API?
>> Scott Moss: So
GraphQL itself does not do the filtering,
you have to implement the filtering
yourself in the resolvers.
But it provides the mechanism
that facilitates that filter.
So just like you would in REST.
For instance, if you made a REST call and
on the query string you were like
I wanna get /user query string
first name equals whatever,
you would still have to build
that in your controller.
You still gotta do that in your resolver.
It's very much the same.
It's just the way GraphQL
provides it it's way more strict.
So, for instance, if you did that in REST,
you would have to check to see that query
string was there and do some stuff.
Whereas GraphQL is like, it's guaranteed
there if you said it has to be there.
Otherwise, it wouldn't have gotten there.
It wouldn't have even gotten past
GraphQL cuz Graph would be like, no,
I need a filter here.
You're not even going there.
So it's very strict like that.
All this will make sense when we start
building, but yes, you can do all of that.